h1. Hypatia

Hypatia (see "https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/HYPAT/Home":https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/HYPAT/Home) is a Hydra application (see "https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/The+Hydra+Project":https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/The+Hydra+Project) which supports accessioning, arrangement, description, discovery, delivery, and long term preservation of born digital collections. 

Hypatia is being developed as part of the AIMS Project ("http://www2.lib.virginia.edu/aims/":http://www2.lib.virginia.edu/aims/) ("Born-Digital Collections: An Inter-Institutional Model for Stewardship") funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.

For a more thorough overview of the Hydra framework, see "HYDRA_OVERVIEW.textile":https://github.com/projecthydra/hydrangea/blob/master/HYDRA_OVERVIEW.textile.

h2. Installation/Setup

h4. (0) Install Prerequisites

* "ruby":http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/    NOTE: version 1.8.7 or higher
* "rubygems":http://rubygems.org/pages/download
* these ruby gems:
** "bundler":http://gembundler.com/
** "rails":http://rubyonrails.org/    NOTE: version < 3.
* "git":http://git-scm.com/
* "java":http://www.java.com/en/    NOTE:  version 1.6 or higher
* "sqlite3":http://www.sqlite.org/

* "RVM":http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/  (Ruby Version Manager)
** We strongly suggest using RVM as a means of keeping your different ruby applications with their specific gem requirements from having version clashes. 
** If you don't have the desired ruby version in RVM, e.g. ree-1.8.7, then install it. The following instructions assume the use of RVM.

<pre>
  rvm install ree-1.8.7
</pre>

h4. (2) Get the Hypatia Application Code

<pre>
  git clone git@github.com:projecthydra/hypatia.git
  cd hypatia
</pre>

h4. (3) Use Bundler to Install the Gem Dependencies.

<pre>
  bundle install
</pre>

Note that if you have RVM installed, it will create/use a gemset called "hypatia".

h4. (4) Migrate the Databases

<pre>
  rake db:migrate
</pre>

Note that if you will be running tests (and you should!!!!), you will also need to migrate the test databases:

<pre>
  rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=test  
</pre>

See "README_TESTING":https://github.com/projecthydra/hypatia/blob/master/README_TESTING.textile.

h4. (5) Get hydra-jetty (Jetty Pre-configured with Fedora and Solr)

The following will pull down a copy of hydra-jetty into the "jetty" directory as a git submodule:

<pre>
  git submodule init
  git submodule update
</pre>

h4. (6) Run Jetty

_Stop any copies of jetty (or anything else using port 8983) before running this command._
(Note that java 1.6 must be invoked by the "java" command or Fedora won't work.)

The following will copy Solr and Fedora configuration files over to jetty in addition to starting it:

<pre>
  rake hydra:jetty:start
</pre>

h4. (7) Run the Hypatia Application

<pre>
  script/server
</pre>

You should now be able to go to your application at http://localhost:3000.

Note that there are no objects pre-installed into Fedora (or Solr).  See "README_FIXTURES"::https://github.com/projecthydra/hypatia/blob/master/README_FIXTURES.textile for information on how to pre-install fixture objects into Fedora and Solr.


